YARN
*****

Why YARN:

In Hadoop version 1.0 which is also referred to as MRV1(MapReduce Version 1), MapReduce performed both processing and resource management functions. 
It consisted of a Job Tracker which was the single master. The Job Tracker allocated the resources, performed scheduling and monitored the processing jobs. 
It assigned map and reduce tasks on a number of subordinate processes called the Task Trackers. The Task Trackers periodically 
reported their progress to the Job Tracker.

This design resulted in scalability bottleneck due to a single Job Tracker. IBM mentioned in its article that according to Yahoo!,
the practical limits of such a design are reached with a cluster of 5000 nodes and 40,000 tasks running concurrently. 
Apart from this limitation, the utilization of computational resources is inefficient in MRV1.
Also, the Hadoop framework became limited only to MapReduce processing paradigm. 
 
To overcome all these issues, YARN was introduced in Hadoop version 2.0 in the year 2012 by Yahoo and Hortonworks. 
The basic idea behind YARN is to relieve MapReduce by taking over the responsibility of Resource Management and Job Scheduling. 
YARN started to give Hadoop the ability to run non-MapReduce jobs within the Hadoop framework. 
 
YARN allows different data processing methods like graph processing, interactive processing, stream processing as well as batch processing to run and process data stored in HDFS. 
Therefore YARN opens up Hadoop to other types of distributed applications beyond MapReduce.

Architecture of YARN :

Resource Manager: 
1. Runs on a master daemon and manages the resource allocation in the cluster.
2. There is one Resource Manager per cluster.Its the master service and usually deployed in high availability configuration(Similar to Namenode)
3. In a Hadoop cluster, we will have an active resource manager and stand by resource manager. If active resource manager goes down, 
stand by resource manager take over the role.

This is having again two components 
1. Scheduler
2. Application Manager


Scheduler

The scheduler is responsible for allocating resources to the various running applications subject to constraints of capacities, queues etc.

It is called a pure scheduler in ResourceManager, which means that it does not perform any monitoring or tracking of status for the applications.

If there is an application failure or hardware failure, the Scheduler does not guarantee to restart the failed tasks.

Performs scheduling based on the resource requirements of the applications.

It has a pluggable policy plug-in, which is responsible for partitioning the cluster resources among the various applications. 
There are two such plug-ins: Capacity Scheduler and Fair Scheduler, which are currently used as Schedulers in ResourceManager.

Application Manager

It is responsible for accepting job submissions.
Negotiates the first container from the Resource Manager for executing the application specific Application Master.
Manages running the Application Masters in a cluster and provides service for restarting the Application Master container on failure.

Node Manager: 
1. Runs on the slave daemons and are responsible for the execution of a task on every single Data Node.
2. Node Manager will be there for each data node
3. It is responsible for launching and monitoring containers


Application Master: 
1. Manages the user job lifecycle and resource needs of individual applications. 
2. It works along with the Node Manager and monitors the execution of tasks.

Container: 
1. This is a Linux Control Group which is a linux kernel feature that allows users to allocate CPU,memory,Disk I/O and Bandwidth to a user process.
2. Container is a user process with some resource limitations.


Application Workflow in YARN:



When Client submits an application on YARN , request goes to Application manager
Application Manager will find one node manager and ask it to launch a container
This is the first container of an application and we will call it an Application Master
Application master takes over the responsibility of executing and monitoring the job


Resource Manager allocates a container to start Application Manager
Application Manager registers with Resource Manager
Application Manager asks containers from Resource Manager
Application Manager notifies Node Manager to launch containers
Application code is executed in the container
Client contacts Resource Manager/Application Manager to monitor application’s status
Application Manager unregisters with Resource Manager