Hive:

1. Differenece between internal and external tables in hive
2. What all the hive ouput file formats that you have worked with
3. What is the difference between texf file formats v/s (ORC/AVRO/Parquet)
4.difference between parquet,ORC and avro and when it can be used
5. What is Predicate Pushdown in Parquet/ORC files
6.Differenece between partitioning and clustering in hive
7.Say I am having table named products. Its having columns ProdID,Prod Name, and colours.
So this colour column is a array data type.I want to list each colour for same product in seperated rows
rather than in a collection. How will I achieve this(Explode and Lateral View)
SELECT p.id,p.productname,colors.colorselection FROM default.products P LATERAL VIEW EXPLODE(p.productcoloroptions) colors as colorselection;

8. Can we do updates to hive tables as in RDBMS. If yes how.
9.Differenec between dynamic and static partition in hive


i. Hive Static Partitioning

Insert input data files individually into a partition table is Static Partition.
Usually when loading files (big files) into Hive tables static partitions are preferred.
Static Partition saves your time in loading data compared to dynamic partition.
You “statically” add a partition in the table and move the file into the partition of the table.
We can alter the partition in the static partition.
You can get the partition column value from the filename, day of date etc without reading the whole big file.
If you want to use the Static partition in the hive you should set property set hive.mapred.mode = strict This property set by default in hive-site.xml
Static partition is in Strict Mode.
You should use where clause to use limit in the static partition.
You can perform Static partition on Hive Manage table or external table.

ii. Hive Dynamic Partitioning

Single insert to partition table is known as a dynamic partition.
Usually, dynamic partition loads the data from the non-partitioned table.
Dynamic Partition takes more time in loading data compared to static partition.
When you have large data stored in a table then the Dynamic partition is suitable.
If you want to partition a number of columns but you don’t know how many columns then also dynamic partition is suitable.
Dynamic partition there is no required where clause to use limit.
we can’t perform alter on the Dynamic partition.
You can perform dynamic partition on hive external table and managed table.
If you want to use the Dynamic partition in the hive then the mode is in non-strict mode.
Here are Hive dynamic partition properties you should allow

9. What is a map side join or Boroadcast join

https://data-flair.training/blogs/map-join-in-hive/

10.What is Bucket map join 

https://data-flair.training/blogs/bucket-map-join/

11.what is SMB join (Sort Merge Bucket Join)

https://data-flair.training/blogs/hive-sort-merge-bucket-join/

12.What all the performance tuning techniques you have implemented in Hive

13. How you have implemented SCD2 in hive

14.How you will schedule hive jobs 